---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogLayout.astro
title: My opinions about the use of AI
description: What I think about AI as a content generation tool and how I feel it can help society.
tags: ["IA", "AI", "genAI"]
time: 3
featured: true
timestamp: 2025-12-26T10:39:03+00:00
filename: ai_use
---

I feel like it's become completely overwhelming finding content generated by AI in our day to day, both on our phones and around us. From the browser, search engines and messaging apps to the ads and "art" generated by big companies for TV media.

I want to take a brief moment to clarify that I am not against using artificial intelligence, since I feel like it's a tool that with the right use can help enormously in multiple aspects of human development. Science, academic research, education, medicine, engineering, software development and many more areas can take advantage with the help of an AI model allowing to optimize processes and finding, under the proper verification, information and data associated with what it's being researched.

However, I must admit that it's making me sad thinking about how these tools have been used to replace common activities associated with the connection that we, as humans, can have. We can see this in how the AI generation of e-mails and instant messages being sent to other people in the workspace or even to loved ones to wish a happy birthday, organize events or even to ask for forgiveness or write a letter. As of today, messaging applications like Whatsapp, allow using AI directly within the app to redact messages and recommend content.

In addition to this situation, I frequently stumble upon content generated by AI under the name of someone who calls himself an "AI Artist", and I can't avoid thinking about how atrocious using the "artist" title for a person that wrote a prompt to generate that content is. Now, does this mean that this person did not make an effort to find the adequate instructions to create what they were looking for? No. However, are we willing to accept that this person can be called the same way that someone who dedicated much more time studying the correct traces, finding the ideal brush and the colors that they considered perfect to create by hand an image from their minds? Would we say, as well, that a song whose lyrics and melody were completely generated by AI has the same value that one that expresses the feelings and the message from a composer or writer? No, I don't agree with the process that a human takes to create art being reduced and equalized with writing a prompt that generates the desired content.

Now, using AI as a learning tool to find the path and receive feedback to develop a talent and learning a new way to express what you feel as a human is, for me, one of the best uses that can be given to this technology. However, we need to be very careful not to make the mistake of transforming our learning process into a direct dependence on AI.

It's very easy to make the mistake of accommodating and find the easy way in our daily life. The current society has a lot of options to facilitate processes that long ago required even more of our time. But in times like these, it's crucial not to forget that part of what helps us grow and learn, as human beings, is the effort and the work we do to achieve the biggest things (and many times, the smallest ones).

In addition to that, it's also crucial to remember that interactions with other humans are a big part of what we call society. And I believe that replacing the time dedicated to write what we feel in a message or letter with the commodity of asking an AI to generate the content in them can end up taking the value of the human connection away and reducing our capacity to communicate.

I am not against using artificial intelligence, but I do believe that just as with other tools, we are capable, as society and independent beings, to decide how are going to use it so we can avoid this tool from replacing our ways of growing and connecting with other human beings.